All right, so let's talk more
about scenarios combining overloaded
and overriding methods in this out
of ordinary section for polymorphism.
So I'm gonna create a new class in this project.
This is our polymorphism project.
We're gonna call this class OverrideOverload.
(typing on a keyboard)
So this code consists of, firstly,
a class called MostBasicClass.
And it's actually got three overloaded methods,
as you can see there, baseMethod.
Moving on down, we've also got
a class called OverrideOverload
that extends the most basic class
and overrides one of the overloaded methods there,
as you can see, and it's also got a main method
where we're going to invoke the classes
and then actually call some of these methods.
So let's actually run the code.
(mouse clicking)
All right, so there's the app at the bottom of the screen.
You can see the parent overload void base method.
Child overrode void base method,
parent overload, that's the object, base method
that had an argument of top string.
And parent overload of the base method,
the one that took variable arguments listed ints.
We've got this, "Uh oh, error occurred
"in call to oo.baseMethod(intArray) local variable i = 0.
So can we overload a base method in the child class?
Well, let's actually try that.
So we need to add a method then we're gonna add this method
to our override overload class.
So I'm gonna add it above the main method.
(typing on a keyboard).
There it is there, now I need accept that import.
(keyboard keys clicking)
Other than that, the compiler isn't complaining.
So let's try another before we execute the code.
So I gotta paste this directly below,
still in the override overload class.
(keyboard keys clicking)
So you can see here that IntelliJ recognised
this as an overridden method because
the method signature matched a method on the parent
and the return type was a subtype
of the parent methods return type.
And that's unlike the overloaded method on line 43
so it hasn't got this little symbol there,
which is denoting an overridden method,
let's fix that typo (keyboard keys clicking).
All right, so let's now add calls to these methods
into our main method of override overload.
So we're gonna enter the main method there.
And we really only need to add one line of output
and it's one extra line there,
and that's gonna be the line there.
(keyboard keys clicking)
Gonna add that there, oo. It's gonna be base method
which we're invoking, and the one we're going
to invoke is one that accepts a string array
so it's gonna be new String array
(typing on a keyboard)
and I'm going to create a string array
of only one element, contained in double quotes.
(keyboard keys clicking)
All right, like so.
And, again, in terms of the code
it's gonna be executing what we've added there.
So let's try running it. (keyboard keys clicking)
and you can see that output here
is demonstrating both the newly overridden method,
as well as the new overloaded method.
All right so, continuing with our example
let's override the last method.
So we wanna override that method,
the base method on line 23.
So we wanna paste the code in now
into our override overload class.
Gonna paste down just before the main method.
(keyboard keys clicking)
and you can see here that we have a compiler error
on the exception thrown by the class.
It's not a proper override,
but it's also not a valid overloaded method.
So if I remove that (keyboard keys clicking) like so
we can see now that the intArray matches
the ver arg's declaration int for the override test
so it will when we actually run it.
And IntelliJ indicates the method's now overridden,
but interestingly enough, as I scroll down there,
you can see we've got a new compiler error.
This is on the call to the method.
The overridden method's not accepting
the variable argument's parameters now
so you're allowed to override a variable arg's method
with an array reference but you will have to call it
with an array parameter, if you do that.
So to fix this, given that we have got
an array defined there in line 67,
I'm gonna change this and literally just pass
the integer array. (keyboard keys clicking)
You can see the error then disappears
and we're now using that array defined on line 67.
We run the code now. (mouse clicking)
you can see that we're no longer getting
an error when we pass an intArray to the base method method.
Now, if you go back up to our methods, back up here
to, this is the one, the base method defined,
as you can see there on line 59.
Let's make this static and see what happens.
(typing on a keyboard)
You can see we've immediately got a compile error.
You can't override an instance method
in a parent with a static method in the child.
And the reverse is also true,
you cannot override a static method
on the parent with an instance method on the child.
All right, so I'm just going to undo that change
so the code will still compile.
Just run it again, (mouse clicking)
and we're good to go.
All right, so that should cover
the material for overridden methods.
By now you should have a very clear picture
of the difference between overloaded methods
and overridden methods.
Coming up next is a small quiz,
and then I'll see you in the video following that one,
which reviews casting, see you in the next video.